we're at tienen a columbus with lisa
Schroyer the author of knitting +
welcome we thank you or nice so tell me
all about the book so the book is about
knitting for plus sizes and how to
choose the right sweater patterns for
your shape and then how to tweak the
shapes within those construction styles
to work for your size different yarns
and different different motifs that's
right sounds really interesting how's
the book organized the book is broken
into five chapters by garment
construction style okay
taking a pretty technical look at how
these sweaters are put together and then
what you need to tweak to fit you so how
does it begin so the first chapter is
about the drop shoulder construction
which is the sweater that I'm wearing
and the key element of a drop shoulder
is that the armhole is not shaped it's
straight from top to bottom let's just
make sure that everybody can see so it's
literally a straight line just kind of a
square that's right so the shoulder is
fairly wide and that's why it's called a
drop shoulder because it falls over the
line it actually drops down on what's
right so what is then what kind of yarn
knitting is for this it looks like it
has pretty good drape for this sweater
it was a worsted weight wool this thing
I think it's here so it's a fairly warm
sweater but quick to knit on size eight
needles and a fairly drapey gauge and I
think tell us about the sweater to your
left so this is also a drop shoulder
sweater it's much more fitted it has an
a-line shape in to accommodate hips and
it's worked in an all-over fair isle
pattern but the shoulder does still have
that kind of square silhouette so that's
right so that it still has a fairly wide
shoulder and a fairly large upper sleeve
as a result of that this is a little bit
of a thinner fabric though tell us about
the yarn choice for this one and this is
worked in a sport weight wool so that it
is a finer gauge than this garment but
it's working stranded fair isle so you
still get a pretty substantial fabric
because your your floats are doubling
with that that's right so and I look for
yarns with a great color range when
you're doing well so you get that great
like painterly and it will affect it
please so walk us through the next of
the rest of the book so the next chapter
goes in to set in sleeves and in the set
in is the opposite of a drop shoulder
you can see that the armhole is shaped
and it creates this this angled line
here so that the shoulder is much
narrower and fits you sort of much more
refined way right but this one that will
require seams right does require scenes
yes so but this one doesn't this one
does on the sides because it's also
worked in a singles and I always
recommend when you're working with
singles yarn to work seams mm-hmm to
avoid skewing so this is a Raglan which
are three chapter three goes into the
Raglan style and you can see it's a
Raglan by the diagonal lines from here
to here from underarm to neckline and
a crate sortal sporty look can be very
flattering for women who are a little
busty and curvier so and then the next
chapter goes into the seamless yoke
which is shaped in the round in one
piece with decreases concentric way
around the yoga so just so everybody can
see I want to point out one round is
this around of decreases here or do they
start here there's four rounds this is
the first one okay and then the next one
is here the next one here and the next
one right before the neck that's right
so the this sweater basically you're
decreasing the bulk out when you join
the sleeves to the body right up towards
the neck right so narrow shape that
first round has a really large
circumference and then you narrow as
you're working right yeah this is great
and I think that we should point out to
everybody these are like template
sweaters right right so each chapter has
a very basic sweater in the construction
style so you can see what it looks like
on a plus-sized woman and then we have
more involved patterns that take the
basic configuration and then start
elaborate
we've got one more chapter and that's
the ones am i right here the last
chapter covers the Dolman construction
which you can see there's no seam
between the sleeve and the body it's
worked as one piece in this case from
side to side so that all the stitches
are running this way right and this is a
great look for plus-sized woman women
it's sort of a kimono style with a wider
sleeve very drapey I think it's a great
option for the plus-sized woman being
flattering well sounds great thanks so
much thank you